Hi friends
In this video we will discuss about string declaration and initialisation.
So first let us discuss above string declaration and the syntax for
declaring a
String is char followed by the variable_name and
in square brackets specify the size and a semi colon
See some examples char name[10]
It will create a string named name of size 10
Next we have char city[20]
It will create a string named City of Size 20
Now let us discuss of string initialisation and
we can initialise string in different ways
One method is direct initialisation and in this method the
string must be enclosed within double quotes and the
compiler will automatically append a NULL character /0 and
direct initialisation is done in two ways
One is direct initialisation with size which specifies the size
prior to the assignment
So see this example we have char country[6]="India"
and remember to write the string within
double quotes
Now if you see the word India has
5 letters in it but we had to specify size equal
to six and not five
This additional memory is required for the null character
You always need to allocate one more byte to store
the null character
So in general to store n characters in a string we should
create n+1 string size
This plus one is for the null character
Now
The next method is initialisation without size
Here we don't need to specify the size
At first. the size of the string will be determined by
the compiler. so that was direct initialisation
Now we have the next method character by character initialisation
Here we must specify the Null characters \0 at
the end of the string
Now this can also be done in two ways
Initialization with size and without size. in initialisation
with size we need to specify the size at first
and in curly braces specify the characters enclosed in single
quotes separated by commas. In initialisation without size
We don't need to specify the size
At first it will be determined by the compiler but
still we must add the null character at last
Now see some examples
If we write like this char country[6] equal
to India in double quotes followed by semi colon then
it will be stored like this
This is direct initialisation
So no need to
add null character. at Country[0] we will have
I, at country[1]
We will have N, at country[2]
We will have D, at country[3]
We will have I, at country[4] we will
have A. at country[5]
We will have the null character \0
Now if the size of the string is greater than
number of characters in the string the remaining bytes will
be filled with \0
And if the size of the string is less than
number of characters in the string then it will throw
the warning message saying that initializer string for char array
is too long and we should avoid this kind of
initializations
So that's all and thank you watching this video